W-19547231-monitoring-normalization-release-kt (#407)
mulesoft/docs-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/am-installing.adoc

- If you find connection failure or retry entries, ensure that port 8443 (Anypoint Monitoring agents from installer version 3.x and later only) and 443 (all Anypoint Monitoring agents) in your outbound firewall are open.
- If you don't find connection failure or retry entries, contact the support team.
- On Windows, if Anypoint Monitoring agent is configured to run as a service and throws Error 1064 when starting, find the root cause by opening the Windows application Events Viewer to *Windows Logs* -> *Applications*.

> - If you encounter inconsistent path normalization, refer to the <<normalize-path, Normalize API Paths>> section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you encounter inconsistent path normalization, refer to <<normalize-path>>.
```
The section title will get added automatically, and I don't think we need to add "section".

> +

Reviewer: Should we add new rev date for this release?  
:page-revdate: September 3, 2025

We will also need a by-date entry for it.

. Restart Mule.

[[normalize-path]]
== Normalize API Paths

> Anypoint Platform analytics gives you full control over how your API paths are normalized, ensuring consistent data for analysis. This is useful for APIs with dynamic segments that might otherwise lead to inconsistent data.

Reviewer: @kevintroller Which Anypoint Platform analytics data are we talking about?

> Configure the `anypoint.platform.config.analytics.endpoint.patterns` property to define patterns for your dynamic endpoints and normalize your API paths.

Reviewer: If we don't clarify which analytics data, maybe avoid the phrase "Anypoint Platform analytics" altogether with something like 

```suggestion
Normalize paths to API endpoints with `anypoint.platform.config.analytics.endpoint.patterns`. This property is useful for paths with dynamic segments.
```

=== Configure the Property in Runtime Manager

> You can define this property when deploying a new application to CloudHub or on a running Mule application in Runtime Manager. To configure the property, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure this property when deploying a new application to CloudHub or on a running Mule application in Runtime Manager: 
```

Reviewer: simplified to avoid a subsection to this short section

. Log in to your Anypoint Platform account and select *Runtime Manager*.
. Either click *Deploy Application* for a new deployment, or select an existing application and click *Manage Application*.
. Navigate to the *Properties* tab in the *Settings* section.
. Under *New Key*, add `anypoint.platform.config.analytics.endpoint.patterns`.
. Under *New Value*, add the pattern for your dynamic endpoint, for example: `/api/V1/proc/payments/{}/cancel`.
. Click *Apply Changes*.

> By defining an explicit pattern, you can ensure consistent normalization of dynamic endpoints in your analytics data. All incoming requests matching the pattern are correctly normalized to a single endpoint, making your analytics data clean and actionable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By defining an explicit pattern, you can ensure consistent normalization of dynamic endpoints in your analytics data. All incoming requests matching the pattern are correctly normalized to a single endpoint.
```

Reviewer: Sorry to say that I did not realize this was configured in Runtime Manager. Now I question whether the steps belong in the Monitoring docs. But I'm still not clear which analytics we're talking about. Maybe it's specific to analytics that you can get in Monitoring? ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ Need more info.

For example, provide a pattern that identifies the variable part:

Pattern: `/api/V1/proc/payments/{}/cancel`

Incoming request: `/api/V1/proc/payments/CAjjAXjh/cancel`

> Normalized result: `/api/V1/proc/payments/X/cancel`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Normalized result: `/api/V1/proc/payments/X/cancel`
```
For this one, do we want to use "X" here w/o more explanation? Maybe I'm wrong, but I'd thought Kailash meant in his example that "X" _represented_ whatever value was passed in that segment of the URL. If so, maybe italicize "X" and clarify what X represents below the Normalized result example.

Author: I rewrote it, let me know if it's clear. Based on Kailash information:

Pattern:/api/V1/proc/payments/{}/cancel
Result: All incoming requests matching this pattern, like
/api/V1/proc/payments/CAjjAXjh/cancel
 
will now be correctly normalized to
/api/V1/proc/payments/X/cancel
in their analytics.

@kailash-gaur369 could you review this as well?

> 

Reviewer: Not shown here since there were no changes, but wondering if we should add a line to the Troubleshooting section saying that if they encounter inconsistent path to see the new path normalization section. Could link to that section.

Author: Done.

You can configure this property when deploying a new application to CloudHub or on a running Mule application in Runtime Manager: 

. Log in to your Anypoint Platform account and select *Runtime Manager*.
. Either click *Deploy Application* for a new deployment, or select an existing application and click *Manage Application*.
. Navigate to the *Properties* tab in the *Settings* section.
. Under *New Key*, add `anypoint.platform.config.analytics.endpoint.patterns`.
. Under *New Value*, add the pattern for your dynamic endpoint, for example: `/api/V1/proc/payments/{X}/cancel`.
. Click *Apply Changes*.

By defining an explicit pattern, you can ensure consistent normalization of dynamic endpoints in your analytics data. All incoming requests matching the pattern are correctly normalized to a single endpoint.

For example, provide a pattern that identifies the variable part. +

The variable can be either:

* `{}` with an empty string
* `{string}` with a string value

Therefore, when you define your property value, for example:

* `/api/V1/proc/payments/{paymentId}/cancel`

> All incoming requests with an empty string or with a string value:

Reviewer 2: To be technically correct 
Can you rephrase `All incoming requests with an empty string or with a string value` ?
like `All incoming requests matching the pattern`

Also It is not very clear how can we add multiple patterns in `anypoint.platform.config.analytics.endpoint.patterns`

===> Suggestion

Therefore, when you define your property value, for example:

* `/api/V1/proc/payments/{paymentId}/cancel` (single property)
* `/api/V1/proc/order/{orderId},/api/V1/proc/order/{}/cancel` (multiple properties separated by `,`)

All incoming requests matching the pattern:

* `/api/V1/proc/payments/CAjjAXjh/cancel

* `/api/V1/proc/order/jAXjh`
* `/api/V1/proc/order/jAXjh/cancel`

Normalizes the result as: 

* `/api/V1/proc/payments/X/cancel`

*`/api/V1/proc/order/X`
*`/api/V1/proc/order/X/cancel`

Normalize paths to API endpoints with `anypoint.platform.config.analytics.endpoint.patterns`. This property is useful for paths with dynamic segments.

You can configure this property when deploying a new application to CloudHub or on a running Mule application in Runtime Manager: 

. Log in to your Anypoint Platform account and select *Runtime Manager*.
. Either click *Deploy Application* for a new deployment, or select an existing application and click *Manage Application*.
. Navigate to the *Properties* tab in the *Settings* section.
. Under *New Key*, add `anypoint.platform.config.analytics.endpoint.patterns`.
. Under *New Value*, add the pattern for your dynamic endpoint, for example: `/api/V1/proc/payments/{X}/cancel`.
. Click *Apply Changes*.

By defining an explicit pattern, you can ensure consistent normalization of dynamic endpoints in your analytics data. All incoming requests matching the pattern are correctly normalized to a single endpoint.

For example, provide a pattern that identifies the variable part. +

The variable can be either:

* `{}` with an empty string
* `{string}` with a string value

Therefore, when you define your property value, for example:

> * `/api/V1/proc/payments/{X}/cancel

Reviewer 2: let us not use `X` as it would be not be taken correctly by readers and readers would think that they always need to use `X` for normalized section where as they can use any  string

Just to be explicit can we replace this line  `/api/V1/proc/payments/{X}/cancel` 
with  below
`/api/V1/proc/payments/{X}/cancel or  /api/V1/proc/payments/{paymentId}/cancel`

Reviewer: I'd suggest the latter one: `/api/V1/proc/payments/{paymentId}/cancel`

Author: @kailash-gaur369 is this part correct for the variable:

The variable can be either:

* `{}` with an empty string
* `{string}` with a string value

Therefore, the property value can be:

/api/V1/proc/payments/{}/cancel -----> is this one correct? as is empty string? 
/api/V1/proc/payments/{paymentId}/cancel

> All incoming requests with an empty string or with a string value:

Reviewer 2: Request cannot contain empty string  so `/api/V1/proc/payments//cancel` is incorrect

> * `/api/V1/proc/payments//cancel` +

Reviewer 2: Let us replace this line with below 2 lines 
`/api/V1/proc/payments/{paymentId}/cancel`
`/api/V1/proc/payments/{X}/cancel`

+
. Restart Mule.

[[normalize-path]]
== Normalize API Paths

Normalize paths to API endpoints with `anypoint.platform.config.analytics.endpoint.patterns`. This property is useful for paths with dynamic segments.

You can configure this property when deploying a new application to CloudHub or on a running Mule application in Runtime Manager: 

. Log in to your Anypoint Platform account and select *Runtime Manager*.
. Either click *Deploy Application* for a new deployment, or select an existing application and click *Manage Application*.
. Navigate to the *Properties* tab in the *Settings* section.
. Under *New Key*, add `anypoint.platform.config.analytics.endpoint.patterns`.

> . Under *New Value*, add the pattern for your dynamic endpoint, for example: `/api/V1/proc/payments/{paymentId}/cancel`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Under *New Value*, add the pattern for your dynamic endpoint, for example, `/api/V1/proc/payments/{paymentId}/cancel`.
```
based on guidance from notebook against style guidelines

. Click *Apply Changes*.

> By defining an explicit pattern, you can ensure consistent normalization of dynamic endpoints in your analytics data. All incoming requests matching the pattern are correctly normalized to a single endpoint.

Reviewer: Do we need to say "analytics data". I'm not clear exactly what type of data we're getting.

> For example, provide a pattern that identifies the variable part. +

Reviewer: Is that "+" at the end needed for something?

> The variable can be either:

Reviewer: We're talking about valid syntax for variables? Assuming yes and that this is a comprehensive list, maybe something like this:

```suggestion
For variables, you can use:
```
I'm not clear if these mean the same things or if the latter restricts this to a variable to string data types and the other allows other data types or what. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

* `{}` with an empty string
* `{string}` with a string value

> Therefore, when you define your property value, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, assume property values that follow these patterns:
```

> * `/api/V1/proc/payments/{paymentId}/cancel` (single property)

Reviewer 2: Can we please update this like below

For example, assume property values that follow these patterns:

* `/v1/payments/{paymentId}/cancel` (single property)
* `/v1/order/{orderId},/v1/order/{}/cancel` (multiple properties separated by `,`)

These incoming requests match one of the defined patterns:

* `/v1/order/jAXjh`
* `/v1/payments/CAjjAXjh/cancel`
* `/v1/order/jAXjh/cancel`

Normalized results for the example requests:

* `/v1/payments/X/cancel`
* `/v1/order/X`
* `/v1/order/X/cancel`

* `/api/V1/proc/order/{orderId},/api/V1/proc/order/{}/cancel` (multiple properties separated by `,`)

> All incoming requests matching the pattern:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These incoming requests match one of the defined patterns:
```
I'm trying to avoid stringing phrases with examples together as though they are part of a complete sentence. Not sure if we allow that.

* `/api/V1/proc/payments/CAjjAXjh/cancel`
* `/api/V1/proc/order/jAXjh`
* `/api/V1/proc/order/jAXjh/cancel`

> Normalizes the result as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Normalized results for the example requests:
```
Trying to avoid the problem of what the subject of "Normalizes" is here. 

As for the list, I get what we mean but don't understand why we use X here. But whatever.
